Add guide to create a business component (#27)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/essentials/create-a-business-component.md

---
id: create-a-business-component
title: Create a Business Component
---

> In Front Commerce we have separated our components in two categories: the **UI**

Reviewer: Should be reworded according to the UI components intro changes.

```suggestion
In Front-Commerce components are classified under two categories: the **UI**
```

components available in the `web/theme/components` folder, and the **Business**
components available in the `web/theme/modules` and `web/theme/pages` folders.

<blockquote class="note">
If you feel the need to understand why we went for this organization, feel
free to refer to [React components structure](#TODO)
first.
</blockquote>

In this section, we will build a **Business Component**. If you have already
gone through the [Create an UI component](create-a-ui-component.html), the core
concept is the same.

## What is a Business component

A Business component will be located in the `my-module/theme/modules` folder. Those
components are not meant to be reused a lot in your application, they are built
with a **very specific use in mind**. When creating a custom theme, they should
emerge from [your Pages components](add-a-page-client-side.html).

To illustrate this, imagine that you are building the homepage for your store.

> You add a big hero image on top, some product listings for news and sales, a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The page is composed of a big hero image on top, some product listings for news and sales, a
```

reinsurance banner, etc.

> Quickly, you will want to **extract** some components from your page to avoid a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Soon, you will want to **extract** some components from your page to avoid a
```

(not very confident about this suggestion)

_big bloated file_. Some of these components will be extracted as **reusable UI
components** but some are very specific to your page and there is no reason to
put them in the [`components` folder](create-a-ui-component.html).

<blockquote class="note">

> They are often a mix between UI components and custom layout. They may be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Such components are often a mix between UI components and custom layouts. They may be
```

> split in multiples components if they are big enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
splitted into multiple components if they are big enough.
```

components** or even **modules**.

<blockquote class="note">
Unlike UI components, Business ones are often _smart_ and contain logic. We
try to extract this logic in **Enhancers**, more on that later.
</blockquote>

## Creating a store locator

To explain the concept and the emergence of modules, we will add a **store
locator** to our home page and see how to extract it properly as a module.

In the following steps, we are going to build our store locator. We will go
through:

1.  Displaying a map on the homepage
2.  Fetching the position of the store from the backend
3.  Link both to have an actual module

### Installing the dependencies

To create the map, we are going to use the
[**react-leaflet**](https://react-leaflet.js.org/en/) package. It provides a
component that uses leaflet under the hood. It will allow us to display the
position of our store within [OpenStreetMap](https://www.openstreetmap.org/search?query=Toulouse#map=12/43.6007/1.4329).

This is one of the biggest advantages of using React to build our front-end, we
have access to this huge ecosystem.

Let's install the two required packages:

```sh

> npm install react-leaflet leaflet`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npm install react-leaflet leaflet
```

coordinates. Then we will extract the store locator feature in its own module
component. And finally, we will fetch the actual coordinates from the
**GraphQL schema**.

The first working version will look like:

```jsx
// my-module/theme/pages/Home/Home.js;

// ... Existing imports
import { Map, TileLayer, Marker, Popup } from "react-leaflet";
import "leaflet/dist/leaflet.css";
import "leaflet/dist/images/marker-icon.png";
import "leaflet/dist/images/marker-shadow.png";

const Home = ({ store }) => (
  <div className="page page--home">
    {/* ... The rest of the homepage */}
    <Map
      center={[43.584296, 1.44182]}
      zoom={14}
      style={{ height: "600px", width: "800px" }}
    >
      <TileLayer
        attribution="&amp;copy <a href=&quot;http://osm.org/copyright&quot;>OpenStreetMap</a> contributors"
        url="https://{s}.tile.openstreetmap.org/{z}/{x}/{y}.png"
      />
      <Marker position={[43.584296, 1.44182]}>
        <Popup>
          <span>My awesome store is HERE!</span>
        </Popup>
      </Marker>
    </Map>
  </div>
);
// ...
```

With that, you should see the map appear in your homepage.

### Extracting our new component

> Having the map in the Home component could be fine for a time, but if there are many

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having the map in the `Home` component could be fine for a time, but if there are many
```

      error: data.error,
      store: data.loading ? null : data.store
    })
  });
```

Here, we are using the `graphql` function which allows us to fetch data in our
graphQL schema.

You can find all the available `graphql` options in the
[**React Apollo** documentation](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/react/api/react-apollo.html)

In our case, it takes two arguments:

- the first one is the **Query** we need to fetch (we will handle this part
  soon)
- the `props` property in the second parameter to compute the **Query**
  result `data` to `loading`, `error` and `store` properties that will
  be used in the enhanced component.

As you can see, our Enhancer needs a **Query** (`StoreLocatorQuery`). This is
a `.gql` file that use the **GraphQL** syntax. In our case, it will look like:

```graphql
// my-module/theme/modules/StoreLocator/StoreLocatorQuery.gql

query StoreLocator {
  store {
    name
    phone
    owner {
      email
    }
    coordinates {
      longitude
      latitude
    }
  }
}
```

To better understand and test your schema, you can use **GraphQL Playground**.
It is a web interface for GraphQL, similar to what PhpMyAdmin is for MySQL. In

> Front-Commerce Lite, we can access it at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Front-Commerce, we can access it at
```

:metal:

[http://0.0.0.0:4000/playground](http://0.0.0.0:4000/playground).

<blockquote class="note">
<p>You may think that some queries are already launched in our `EnhanceHome`

> and that splitting the StoreLocatorQuery from them is inefficient. But

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and that separating the `StoreLocatorQuery` from them is inefficient. But
```

`react-apollo` will handle that for you. It will batch the requests to avoid too

> many network rountrips. This allows us to only think about what a component needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
many network roundtrips. This allows us to only think about what data a component needs.
```

```

<blockquote class="note">
About **PropTypes**: they allow us to validate the props passed to a child
component, this will log explicit errors if you pass invalid props in dev mode.
This will also serve as documentation for other developers in your team. They may
be a little verbose, but maintaining them will help you in the long run.
</blockquote>

## Using it in our App

We now have extracted all the store locator logic. We can now use our
brand new and shiny module component within the homepage.

```js
// my-module/theme/pages/Home/Home.js;
// ...
import StoreLocator from "theme/modules/StoreLocator";

const Home = ({ store }) => (
  <div className="page page--home">
    {/* ... */}
    <StoreLocator />
  </div>
);
```

As you can see, we did not use a relative import. This is because in
Front-Commerce we have a few aliases that will let you import files without
worrying about your current position in the folder structure.

In our case, the `Home` component being in
`my-module/web/theme/pages/Home/Home.js`, we do not have to import the
`StoreLocator` by using relative paths `../../modules/StoreLocator` but we

> can remain with `theme/modules/StoreLocator` which is more explicit. This

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can do so with `theme/modules/StoreLocator` which is more explicit. This
```

is possible for any file located in the folder `web/theme` of a module.

And it works! You now have a clean `Home` page component that uses a Business
component which could be used anywhere in your application (About us,
Contact, etc.).

<blockquote class="note">
**Going further:** The store locator we just created is very simple and it
has a very limited Business impact. The store locator module does not need
to know the implementation of the map itself (like the fact of using
`react-leaflet`). So a map component could be extracted in a **UI** component.
But for the sake of this guide, we kept it simple.
</blockquote>

> As a final note, please keep in mind that splitting code is a difficult task.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## A word about breaking up components

As a final note, please keep in mind that splitting code is a difficult task.
```

I think it deserves an explicit title to highlight this advice.

Do you think it would be interesting to also add a link to https://blog.kentcdodds.com/when-to-break-up-a-component-into-multiple-components-4ee75ab53bbc ?

> It needs practice and refinement. But it is also a pretty personnal point of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It needs practice and refinement. But it is also a pretty personal point of
```

view. Thus one team could split code differently. In this guide we have made a
choice but feel free to make yours.

> In any case, we advice you to not overcomplicate things and find a method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In any case, we advise you to not overcomplicate things and find a method
```
